docs: what is GitHub introduction (#43)
The-Mycelium-Network/webworkbook: content/topics/what-is-github/index.md

---
title: What is GitHub?
keywords: github, github explained, open source collaboration
description: An introduction to GitHub and the available alternatives for social coding and contributing to open-source.
menu:
  main:
    parent: topics
    name: What is GitHub?
---

> {{< youtube w3jLJU7DT5E >}}

Reviewer: Hey @JaiNeethling, I forgot that we should specify a `title` for the video embeds. This is important for accessibility reasons as it will tell a screen reader what is contained in the `iframe` that this shortcode generates. https://dequeuniversity.com/tips/provide-iframe-titles

```suggestion
{{< youtube w3jLJU7DT5E title="What is GitHub?" >}}
```

Github is a hub for programmers, designers, technical writers, open-source enthusiasts, and the AI companions that can help them along the way.

Github creates spaces for people to come together and solve problems - like setting up the code for a more renewable system on farms, so farmers can better track soil moisture and save water for both themselves and for the health of our planet.

With the help of other programmers, Github Copilot and CodeQL, the result of your hard work is far less likely to have any vulnerabilities, and you can merge confidently.

GitHub is the most popular platform for open-source enthusiasts to collaborate on code projects by using the software Git. GitHub is very user friendly, even complete beginners can learn to use GitHub in hardly any time at all. This capability can help new programmers build up their resumes by doing Pull Requests, and interacting with the community in other ways.

> With GitHub’s Codespaces collaborators can easily access their entire development stack in the cloud. This includes popular tools such as Visual Studio Code.
> 
> Copilot is an AI editor willing to help you write your code in the form of making suggestions for whole lines or entire functions.
> 
> Discussions are dedicated spaces for communities to connect and discuss their latest projects.
> 
> Pull Requests lets you share any changes you made to a branch in a repository, and opens discussions and Code Review around that potential change.

Reviewer: Maybe we can do something like this:

```suggestion
### Key GitHub features

- With [GitHub’s Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces), collaborators can easily access their entire development stack in the cloud. This includes popular tools such as Visual Studio Code.
- [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) is your machine learning pair programmer.
- [Discussions](https://github.com/features/discussions) are dedicated spaces for communities to connect, discuss, and support each other while creating great open-source software projects.
- [Pull Requests](https://github.com/features/code-review) allows teams to collaborate on changes and new features. The built-in code review tools make it easy to ensure code meets quality and code standards.
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) enables maintainers to automate common tasks and create continuous integration and deployment pipelines. All this can be done with existing Actions in the GitHub marketplace, or you can write your own custom Actions.
```
